Add conditional support for VPAs (#2017)
kyma-project/istio: docs/user/00-45-istio-features-configmap.md

- **Bypass risk** – Any container in the Pod that runs before `istio-init` completes, or any container that also holds `NET_ADMIN`/`NET_RAW` capabilities, could potentially modify or bypass the `iptables` rules that enforce traffic interception. With Istio CNI, this concern is eliminated because interception is set up by a privileged node-level agent before the Pod's containers start.
- **Increased attack surface on nodes** – While the `istio-init` container only affects its own network namespace, having `NET_ADMIN`-capable init containers increases the overall attack surface compared to the CNI-based approach, where privilege escalation is confined to the dedicated CNI DaemonSet.

### **enableControlPlaneVPA**

**Type:** `boolean`
**Default:** `false`

When set to `true`, the Istio module creates [Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA)](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/vertical-pod-autoscaler) resources for Istio control plane components: istiod, ingress gateway, egress gateway, and CNI DaemonSet.

> The VPA manages **memory** resources only, allowing it to coexist safely with the existing Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) that scales based on CPU utilization. This enables automatic memory optimization for large-scale mesh deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, the Istio module creates [VerticalPodAutoscaler (VPA)](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/vertical-pod-autoscaler) resources for Istio control plane components: istiod, ingress gateway, egress gateway, and CNI DaemonSet.

The VPA manages **memory** resources only, allowing it to coexist safely with the existing HorizontalPodAutoscaler (HPA) that scales based on CPU utilization. This enables automatic memory optimization for large-scale mesh deployments.
```

#### Prerequisites

- The cluster must have the VPA Custom Resource Definition (`verticalpodautoscalers.autoscaling.k8s.io`) installed. If the CRD is not present, the VPA resources are silently skipped.

#### Behavior

When enabled:
- VPA resources are created in the `istio-system` namespace targeting istiod, istio-ingressgateway, istio-egressgateway, and istio-cni-node
- Each VPA uses `updateMode: InPlaceOrRecreate` for non-disruptive scaling where supported
- Only memory requests and limits are managed (`controlledResources: [memory]`)

> - Any memory-based metrics in the HPA are automatically removed to prevent autoscaler conflicts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- VPA resources are created in the `istio-system` namespace targeting istiod, istio-ingressgateway, istio-egressgateway, and istio-cni-node.
- Each VPA uses `updateMode: InPlaceOrRecreate` for non-disruptive scaling where supported.
- Only memory requests and limits are managed (`controlledResources: [memory]`).
- Any memory-based metrics in the HPA are automatically removed to prevent autoscaler conflicts.
```
